This project presents the source codes of a novel variant of the gravitational search algorithm (GSA), named adaptive accelerated gravitational search algorithm (AAGSA). This proposed algorithm mainly normalizes the Euclidean distances between the search agents to help the agents' movements be accelerated in the search space. Hence, the exploration capability of the GSA can be significantly enhanced in the AAGSA, while the exploitation capability of this algorithm can also be strengthened by making the random numbers generated in each of the iterations of the optimization process adapted with that iteration such that these random numbers de-emphasize the masses (fitness) of the search agents at the early iterations, while emphasizing the masses and de-emphasizing the distances between the search agents at the later iterations. This procedure can help the exploitation phase of the algorithm be much more desirably conducted as compared to that in the original GSA algorithm. As a result, the AAGSA algorithm can be significantly enhanced in terms of exploration without experiencing that much disruptions in its exploitation phase. As the final advantage of this proposal, it is worth mentioning that the computational complexity and the runtime of the AAGSA is much less than that of the GSA, as the random numbers are only generated agent-by-agent and not variable-by-variable in the body of this algorithm, contributing much less random numbers to be generated during the optimization process. This alteration could be made to the AAGSA due to its high ability to diversifying the search agents in the exploration phase which in turn, entails the nature of the proposal not to be stochastic as much as what is set in the original GSA. The proposed AAGSA algorithm is thus strongly recommended to use for solving the high-dimensional and complex optimization problems, in particular. The original article comprehensively introducing this algorithm is: Kamran, S.; Safavi, H.R.; Golmohammadi, M.H.; Rezaei, F.; Abd Elaziz, M.; Forestiero, A.; Lu, S. Maximizing Sustainability in Reservoir Operation under Climate Change Using a Novel Adaptive Accelerated Gravitational Search Algorithm. Water 2022, 14, 905. https://doi.org/10.3390/w14060905. Please cite this article upon using this source code.
